Middleware using Existing SSH Hosts (Mesh)
==========================================

Mesh is a secure, lightweight grid middleware that is based on the
addition of a single sign-on capability to the built-in public key
authentication mechanism of SSH using system call interposition.
Each Mesh installation is dedicated to serving a particular virtual
organization (VO), which is defined to be a dynamic collection of
individuals, institutions, and resources.  Mesh allows individuals in
one VO to execute SSH remote commands on Mesh-accessible resources
within other cooperating VOs using a single Mesh SSH private key
generated at the local VO.  A full Mesh deployment consists of two
dedicated hosts and three primary software components (besides SSH
itself).  The first host, called the Mesh Proxy (MP), is responsible for
mediating all SSH remote commands that are to execute on Mesh-accessible
resources within the VO.  Users that attempt to bypass the MP and
contact VO resources directly will be unable to utilize Mesh
authentication, thus ensuring complete mediation.

Command mediation on the MP is carried out by a software component
called the Mesh Authorization Shell (Mash).  Mash is a highly flexible
and customizable login shell replacement that parses remote commands and
authorizes them against a site security policy.  As part of the
authorization process, commands can optionally be rewritten to force
compliance with specific site policies or to provide enhanced usability.
Authorized commands are passed on to the appropriate VO resource for
execution using a second SSH remote command.

VO resources are made Mesh-accessible by injecting a software
component called the Mesh Interposition Agent (MIA) into the resource's
SSH server using library preloading, which dynamically modifies its
behavior during public key authentication.  Instead of authenticating
against the authorized_keys file stored locally in the user's home
directory, the MIA causes the server to authenticate against an
authorized_keys file retrieved at run-time from a second dedicated host
within each VO called the Mesh Authentication Point (MAP).

Single sign-on is achieved during key retrieval from the MAP and
authentication to the MP.  In Mesh, each individual is assumed to have a
home VO, which is the VO with which they are most frequently associated
(e.g. the institution for which they work).  When a key is retrieved
by the MIA from a MAP that is not the user's home MAP, the key retrieval
is propagated to the home MAP.  Likewise, when authenticating to an MP
that is not the user's home MP, that MP will initiate a key retrieval
from the home MP.  Thus, a Mesh key generated at the home VO is valid at
all VOs.

Once the user has authenticated successfully on the Mesh-accessible
resource, the MIA ignores the user's login shell and instead executes
the remote command issued by the MP using a software component called
the Mesh Exec Security Shell (Mess).  Mess is a constrained execution
shell that ignores metacharacters and only executes programs authorized
by the administrator and not disallowed by the user.  While the command
is executing, it is subject to read, write, and execution controls
enforced by the MIA.  Once the command terminates, the SSH sessions will
terminate as the final step.

The authentication and authorization components of Mesh may be
deployed independently, thus allowing VOs to choose between a full
deployment, a deployment of only the single sign-on features without
proxying or additional authorizations, or a deployment of only
authorization components without single sign-on.  Although originally
intended for grid-like operations, organizations without an interest in
grid computing can still deploy some or all of Mesh to take advantage of
the additional security features it adds to stock SSH installations.

Mesh is in active production at the NASA Advanced Supercomputing
Facility (https://www.nas.nasa.gov/hecc/support/kb/entry/145) and has
handled over 112M remote commands (as of May 2018) since stats started
being collected in March 2009.

For full details of the Mesh architecture, see
https://pkolano.github.io/papers/sacmat07.pdf.  Note that the
implementation of single sign-on across organizations has changed to
be more scalable and to require less administration from the description
in this paper (see various included documents for details).  For
installation details, see "INSTALL".  For usage details, see
"doc/usage.html".  For frequently asked questions, see "doc/faq.txt".

Questions, comments, fixes, and/or enhancements welcome.

--Paul Kolano <paul.kolano@nasa.gov>

